TINKERPOP-3166 Implement asNumber() step (#3153)
apache/tinkerpop: docs/src/upgrade/release-3.8.x.asciidoc

=== Upgrading for Users

==== Number Conversion Step

> We have introduced a number conversion step, `asNumber()`, which converts the incoming traverser to the nearest parsable type if no argument is provided, or to the desired numerical type, based on the number token (`N`) provided.

Reviewer: the description here is a a copy of what's in the docs. upgrade documentation is should do more to announce a feature and why it's useful. what can be done with this step that you couldn't do before? how does this step make something easier? upgrade docs should describe that sort of thing.

Numerical input will pass through unless a type is specified by the number token, with the exception that any float number will be converted into double. `ArithmeticException` will be thrown for any overflow during narrowing of types:

[source,text]
----
gremlin> g.inject(5).asNumber()
==> 5    // parses to int
gremlin> g.inject(5.0).asNumber()
==> 5    // parses to double
gremlin> g.inject(5.123f).asNumber()
==> 5.123  // will cast float to double
// Narrowing of types may result in ArithmeticException due to overflow
gremlin> g.inject(12).asNumber(N.byte)
==> 12
gremlin> g.inject(128).asNumber(N.byte)
==> ArithmeticException

> gremlin> g.inject(300).asNumber(N.byte)

Reviewer 2: This example seems redundant of the previous example. Maybe change the example to demonstrate an underflow or a different type overflow?

==> ArithmeticException
----

> String input will be parsed. By default, the smalled unit of number to be parsed into is `int` if no number token is provided. `NumberFormatException` will be thrown for any unparsable strings:

Reviewer 2: Same comment as https://github.com/apache/tinkerpop/pull/3153/files#r2193656904

=== Upgrading for Users

==== Number Conversion Step

> We have been iterative introducing new language features into Gremlin, with the last major set of string, list and date manipulation
> steps introduced in the 3.7 line. In 3.8.0, we are now introducing a number conversion step, `asNumber()`, to bridge
> a gap in casting functionalities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have been iteratively introducing new language features into Gremlin, with the most recent major additions being string, list and date manipulation
steps introduced in the 3.7 line. In 3.8.0, we are now introducing a number conversion step, `asNumber()`, to bridge
a gap in casting functionalities.
```

The new `asNumber()` serves as an umbrella step that parses strings and casts numbers into desired types. For the convenience of remote traversals in GLVs, these number types are denoted by a set of number tokens (`N`).

> This new step will allow users to normalize their data by converting string numbers and mixed numeric types to consistent format, making it easier to perform downstream mathematical operations. As an example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This new step will allow users to normalize their data by converting string numbers and mixed numeric types to a consistent format, making it easier to perform downstream mathematical operations. As an example:
```

[source,text]
----
// sum() step can only take numbers
gremlin> g.inject(1.0, 2l, 3, "4", "0x5").sum()
class java.lang.String cannot be cast to class java.lang.Number

// use asNumber() to avoid casting exceptions
gremlin> g.inject(1.0, 2l, 3, "4", "0x5").asNumber().sum()
==>15.0

// given sum() step returned a double, one can use asNumber() to further cast the result into desired type
gremlin> g.inject(1.0, 2l, 3, "4", "0x5").asNumber().sum().asNumber(N.nint)
==>15
----

> Semantically, the `asNumber()` step will convert the incoming traverser to the nearest parsable type if no argument is provided, or to the desired numerical type, based on the number token (`N`) provided.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Semantically, the `asNumber()` step will convert the incoming traverser to a logical parsable type if no argument is provided, or to the desired numerical type, based on the number token (`N`) provided.
```

Numerical input will pass through unless a type is specified by the number token. `ArithmeticException` will be thrown for any overflow during narrowing of types:

[source,text]
----
gremlin> g.inject(5.0).asNumber(N.nint)
==> 5    // casts double to int

> gremlin> g.inject(12).asNumber(N.byte)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
gremlin> g.inject(12).asNumber(N.nbyte)
```

==> 12

> gremlin> g.inject(128).asNumber(N.byte)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
gremlin> g.inject(128).asNumber(N.nbyte)
```

==> ArithmeticException
----

String input will be parsed. By default, the smalled unit of number to be parsed into is `int` if no number token is provided. `NumberFormatException` will be thrown for any unparsable strings:

[source,text]
----
gremlin> g.inject("5").asNumber()
==> 5

> gremlin> g.inject("5.7").asNumber(N.int)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
gremlin> g.inject("5.7").asNumber(N.nint)
```
